CHAPTER 61.
The Spirit of the Lord God is upon me, because the Lord hath anointed me to preach good
tidings unto the meek. He hath sent me to bind up the brokenhearted, to proclaim liberty
to the captives, and the opening of the prison to them that are bound, to proclaim the acceptable
year of the Lord, and the day of vengeance of our God, to comfort all that mourn, to
appoint unto them that mourn in Zion, to give unto them beauty for ashes, the oil of joy
for mourning, the garment of praise for the spirit of heaviness, that they might be called
trees of righteousness, the planting of the Lord, that he might be glorified. And they
shall build the old wastes, they shall raise up the former desolations, and they shall
repair the waste cities, the desolations of many generations. And strangers shall stand
and feed your flocks, and the sons of the alien shall be your plowmen and your vinedressers.
But ye shall be named the priests of the Lord, men shall call you the ministers of our God,
ye shall eat the riches of the Gentiles, and in their glory shall ye boast yourselves.
For your shame ye shall have double, and for confusion they shall rejoice in their portion,
therefore in their land they shall possess the double, everlasting joy shall be unto them.
For I the Lord love judgment, I hate robbery for burnt offering, and I will direct their work in
truth, and I will make an everlasting covenant with them. And their seed shall be known among
the Gentiles, and their offspring among the people. All that see them shall acknowledge them,
that they are the seed which the Lord hath blessed. I will greatly rejoice in the Lord,
my soul shall be joyful in my God, for he hath clothed me with the garments of salvation,
he hath covered me with the robe of righteousness, and as a bridegroom decketh himself with
ornaments, and as a bride adorneth herself with her jewels. For as the earth bringeth forth her
bud, and as the garden causeth the things that are sown in it to spring forth, so the Lord God
will cause righteousness and praise to spring forth before all the nations.
Chapter 62 For Zion's sake will I not hold my peace, and for Jerusalem's sake I will not rest,
until the righteousness thereof go forth as brightness, and the salvation thereof as a lamp
And the Gentiles shall see thy righteousness, and all kings thy glory, and thou shalt be
called by a new name, which the mouth of the Lord shall name. Thou shalt also be a crown of
glory in the hand of the Lord, and a royal diadem in the hand of thy God. Thou shalt no more be
termed forsaken, neither shall thy land any more be termed desolate. But thou shalt be called
Hepsava, and thy land Beulah, for the Lord delighteth in thee, and thy land shall be married. For as a
young man marryeth a virgin, so shall thy sons marry thee, and as the bridegroom rejoiceth over
the bride, so shall thy God rejoice over thee. I have set watchmen upon thy walls, O Jerusalem,
which shall never hold their peace day nor night. Ye that make mention of the Lord keep not silence,
and give him no rest till he establish, and till he make Jerusalem a praise in the earth.
The Lord hath sworn by his right hand, and by the arm of his strength, surely I will no more give
thy corn to be meat for thine enemies, and the sons of the stranger shall not drink thy wine,
for which thou hast laboured. But they that have gathered it shall eat it, and praise the Lord,
and they that have brought it together shall drink it in the courts of my holiness.
Go through, go through the gates, prepare ye the way of the people. Cast up, cast up the highway,
gather out the stones, lift up a standard for the people. Behold, the Lord hath proclaimed unto the
end of the world, say ye to the daughter of Zion, Behold, thy salvation cometh. Behold,
his reward is with him, and his work before him. And they shall call them the holy people,
the redeemed of the Lord, and thou shalt be called sought out, a city not forsaken.
Chapter 63 Who is this that cometh from Edom, with dyed garments from Bosra? This that is
glorious in his apparel, travelling in the greatness of his strength, I that speak in
righteousness, mighty to save. Wherefore art thou red in thine apparel, and thy garments like him
that treadeth in the wine-fat? I have trodden the wine-press alone, and of the people there
was none with me. For I will tread them in mine anger, and trample them in my fury, and their
blood shall be sprinkled upon my garments. And I will stain all my reinment, for the day of
his coming. And I looked, and there was none to help, and I wondered that there was none to uphold.
Therefore mine own arm brought salvation unto me, and my fury it upheld me.
And I will tread down the people in mine anger, and make them drunk in my fury, and I will bring
their strength down to the earth. I will mention the loving kindness of the Lord,
and the praises of the Lord according to all that the Lord hath bestowed on us,
and the great goodness toward the house of Israel, which he hath bestowed on them according to his
mercies, and according to the multitude of his loving kindness. For he said, surely they are
my people, children that will not lie. So he was their Saviour. In all their affliction
he was afflicted, and the angel of his presence saved them. In his love and in his pity he redeemed
them, and he bare them, and carried them all the days of old. But they rebelled, and vexed his
enemy, and he fought against them. Then he remembered the days of old, Moses and his people,
saying, Where is he that brought them up out of the sea with the shepherd of his flock?
Where is he that put his Holy Spirit within him, that led them by the right hand of Moses
with his glorious arm, dividing the water before them, to make himself an everlasting name?
That led them through the deep, as an horse in the wilderness, that they should not stumble.
As the beast goeth down into the valley, the Spirit of the Lord caused him to rest. So didst
thou lead thy people, to make thyself a glorious name. Look down from heaven, and behold from the
sounding of thy bowels and of thy mercies toward me. Are they restrained? Doubtless thou art our
Father, though Abraham be ignorant of us, and Israel acknowledges not, thou, O Lord, art our
Father, our Redeemer, thy name is from everlasting. O Lord, why hast thou made us to err from thy ways,
and harden our heart from thy fear? Return for thy servant's sake, the tribes of thine inheritance.
The people of thy holiness have possessed it but a little while. Our adversaries have trodden down
thy sanctuary. We are thine. Thou never bearest rule over them. They were not called by thy name.
Michael Packard